# SeQL guide

## Introduction

SeQL (Pronounced SehQL) is a set query language designed to manipulate and query databases, at this point only CantorDB, . 

### A note on philosophy

When I set out to design this language my ideal was to create a beautiful, easy to learn, and functional query language in that order. As such my design choices and rules were influenced by these principles. For example, never have two words when you can have one. Every word must justify its existence through either parser spacing or functionality. For GET ELEMENTS OF <Set> every word has said function. GET means that you are getting a list rather than just checking a booleon. ELEMENTS says which direction you are looking. And OF provides a convient marker for the Set algebra section. The beauty of a query language is in its terse near English vocabulary. A Query Language is almost like a caveman grunting what he wants. I chose this not because I think that non programmers will be able to use my Query Language, SQL proved that isn't true, but because the idea of a Query Language as a terse near English representation of operations is beautiful in and of itself. A Query has structure and flow. SQL doesn't need from, SELECT name->students would work just as well to divide the statement, but SELECT name FROM students is more beautiful. It gives the query a rythmn of its own. SELECT name FROM students WHERE age > 18. This statement has structure and rythmn. Everything goes where it should no surprises. I suppose that I am struggling to express just what exactly is so beautiful about a Query Language, but I hope that I have captured it with SeQL. 
One perhaps contraversal design decision is that I have decided to not use parenthesis. Instead, inspired by the masterpeice that is the Principia Mathematica, used dot notation. This will be explained in detail below. The reason I did this was beauty and functionality. Parenthesis are ugly and destroy the purity of the Query Language. While a normal C style program is full of symbols and the like that allows the parenthesis to match the flow of a program, a Query Language such as SQL usually only has parenthesis as a symbol that is above and below the line. As such it captures the eye and interupts scanning a query. In addition it is seperated from which exactly is being promoted within the execution order. ((a UNION b) INTERSECTION C) has its first parenthesis a full not counting the other parenthesis three words before the operator that it is promoting. Depending on the query this can get rather ridiculous with the spacing between the operator and the parenthesis. This destroys the rythmn of a query language. Every other part of a query language either sits directly adjascent to what it is modifying or sets off a new part of the query. However parenthesis are different. They can be very distant from what they are modifying. However dot notation is different. The dots sit directly next to the operator they are modifying. a ..UNION.. b .INTERSECTION. C has the prescedence for INTERSECTION directly adjascent to it. A person does not have to hunt for parenthesis or move their eyes back and forth just to understand what a specific operator does. I do have one negative to note and that is when you are doing a complicated query the number of dots can be confusing as to ensuring that both sides are semmetrical. However, parenthesis has a similiar issue with paper math often using brackets as a way of breaking up parenthesis to ensure more readability. Code does not have this luxary. Thus, atleast in my opinion, and I value my own opinion highly, despite its negatives, dot notation is the superior choice for Query Languages. 